README.md, before:

# Pelican Alchemy

> A magical ✨ Pelican theme

Alchemy is a functional, clean, responsive theme for the [Pelican](http://getpelican.com) static site generator.

Inspired by [crowsfoot](http://github.com/porterjamesj/crowsfoot) and [clean-blog](https://github.com/BlackrockDigital/startbootstrap-clean-blog), it features:

- Powered by [Bootstrap 4](https://getbootstrap.com/) (v4.3.1)
- Supports any [Boostwatch](https://bootswatch.com/) themes
- [Font Awesome](http://fontawesome.io/) icons
- [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) syntax highlighting styles
- Pelican `sitemap.xml` support
- [Favicon Generator](http://realfavicongenerator.net/) support
- External analytics ([Google](https://analytics.google.com), [Gauges](https://gaug.es), [Piwik](https://piwik.org)) support **
- External comments ([Disqus](https://disqus.com)) support **

** Features link to external assets (webfonts etc).

## Screenshots

<table>
<tr>
  <td colspan="2">
    <a href="screenshots/default.png">
      <img src="screenshots/default.png"/>
      <p align="center">Default colors</p>
    </a>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/oldstyle.png">
      <img src="screenshots/oldstyle.png"/>
      <p align="center">Old style (see below)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/sketchy.png">
      <img src="screenshots/sketchy.png"/>
      <p align="center">Sketchy (Boostwatch)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/solar.png">
      <img src="screenshots/solar.png"/>
      <p align="center">Solar (Boostwatch)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/united.png">
      <img src="screenshots/united.png"/>
      <p align="center">United (Boostwatch)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
</tr>
</table>

> To enable old visual style add `THEME_CSS_OVERRIDES = ['theme/css/oldstyle.css']`
> to your `pelicanconf.py` and use no Boostwatch themes.
> See [stylesheet](alchemy/static/css/oldstyle.css) for more information.

## Installation

### From Git repo

Clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy
```

Set the `THEME` variable in your Pelican config:

```python
THEME = '<PATH_TO_REPO>/alchemy'
```

### As a Submodule

In your Pelican site:

```bash
mkdir themes
git submodule add https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy themes/pelican-alchemy
```

And in Pelican config:

```python
THEME = 'themes/pelican-alchemy/alchemy'
```

### With pip

Alternatively, you can install this theme with pip:

```bash
pip install "https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy/tarball/master"
```

And import it from Pelican config:

```python
import alchemy
THEME = alchemy.path()
```

## Usage

Visit the [Settings docs](docs/settings.md) for examples:

- **SITESUBTITLE**: Subtitle that appears in the header.
- **SITEIMAGE**: Image that appears in the header.
- **DESCRIPTION**: Index HTML head `<meta>` description.
- **LINKS**: A list of tuples (Title, URL) for menu links.
- **ICONS**: A list of tuples (Icon, URL) for icon links.
- **FOOTER_LINKS**: A list of tuples (Title, URL) for footer links. Replaces
  default set of links (Authors, Archives, Categories, Tags).
- **BOOTSTRAP_CSS**: URL of Bootstrap CSS file. Use this to enable Boostwatch themes.
- **PYGMENTS_STYLE**: Built-in Pygments style for syntax highlighting.
- **HIDE_AUTHORS**: Hide the author(s) of an article - useful for single author sites.
- **RFG_FAVICONS**: Use a Favicon Generator package.
- **THEME_CSS_OVERRIDES**: Sequence of stylesheet URLs to override CSS provided by theme.
  Both relative and absolute URLs are supported.
- **THEME_JS_OVERRIDES**: Sequence of JavaScript URLs to enable with this
  theme. Alchemy uses no JS by default. Both relative and absolute URLs are
  supported.

Misc settings:

- **DISQUS_SITENAME**
- **GAUGES**
- **GOOGLE_ANALYTICS**
- **PIWIK_URL**
- **PIWIK_SITE_ID**

Example [pelicanconf.py](https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy/blob/demo/pelicanconf.py) (demo website).

### Tips & Tricks

[See documentation page](docs/pelican-tips.md)

## How to Contribute

1. Check for open issues or open a fresh issue to start a discussion around a feature idea or a bug.
1. Fork [the repository](https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy) on GitHub to start making your changes to the master branch (or branch off of it).
1. Send a pull request and bug the maintainer until it gets merged and published. :)

Alchemy follows the [Contributor Covenant](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) code of conduct.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) © 2017 Nairobi GNU/Linux Users Group

Commit message:

Add workaround for icons backwards compatibility
Now old pelicanconf.py should be rendered correctly with new Font Awesome:
- Some special cases are hardcoded. For now those are 'rss' and 'feed'
- If icon string starts with 'fa' it is assumed to represent full CSS class
- Otherwise a brand icon is assumed - sensible fallback for most users

README.md, after:

# Pelican Alchemy

> A magical ✨ Pelican theme

Alchemy is a functional, clean, responsive theme for the [Pelican](http://getpelican.com) static site generator.

Inspired by [crowsfoot](http://github.com/porterjamesj/crowsfoot) and [clean-blog](https://github.com/BlackrockDigital/startbootstrap-clean-blog), it features:

- Powered by [Bootstrap 4](https://getbootstrap.com/) (v4.3.1)
- Supports any [Boostwatch](https://bootswatch.com/) themes
- [Font Awesome](http://fontawesome.io/) icons
- [Pygments](http://pygments.org/) syntax highlighting styles
- Pelican `sitemap.xml` support
- [Favicon Generator](http://realfavicongenerator.net/) support
- External analytics ([Google](https://analytics.google.com), [Gauges](https://gaug.es), [Piwik](https://piwik.org)) support **
- External comments ([Disqus](https://disqus.com)) support **

** Features link to external assets (webfonts etc).

## Screenshots

<table>
<tr>
  <td colspan="2">
    <a href="screenshots/default.png">
      <img src="screenshots/default.png"/>
      <p align="center">Default colors</p>
    </a>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/oldstyle.png">
      <img src="screenshots/oldstyle.png"/>
      <p align="center">Old style (see below)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/sketchy.png">
      <img src="screenshots/sketchy.png"/>
      <p align="center">Sketchy (Boostwatch)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/solar.png">
      <img src="screenshots/solar.png"/>
      <p align="center">Solar (Boostwatch)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
  <td>
    <a href="screenshots/united.png">
      <img src="screenshots/united.png"/>
      <p align="center">United (Boostwatch)</p>
    </a>
  </td>
</tr>
</table>

> To enable old visual style add `THEME_CSS_OVERRIDES = ['theme/css/oldstyle.css']`
> to your `pelicanconf.py` and use no Boostwatch themes.
> See [stylesheet](alchemy/static/css/oldstyle.css) for more information.

## Installation

### From Git repo

Clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy
```

Set the `THEME` variable in your Pelican config:

```python
THEME = '<PATH_TO_REPO>/alchemy'
```

### As a Submodule

In your Pelican site:

```bash
mkdir themes
git submodule add https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy themes/pelican-alchemy
```

And in Pelican config:

```python
THEME = 'themes/pelican-alchemy/alchemy'
```

### With pip

Alternatively, you can install this theme with pip:

```bash
pip install "https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy/tarball/master"
```

And import it from Pelican config:

```python
import alchemy
THEME = alchemy.path()
```

## Usage

Visit the [Settings docs](docs/settings.md) for examples:

- **SITESUBTITLE**: Subtitle that appears in the header.
- **SITEIMAGE**: Image that appears in the header.
- **DESCRIPTION**: Index HTML head `<meta>` description.
- **LINKS**: A list of tuples (Title, URL) for menu links.
- **ICONS**: A list of tuples (Icon, URL) for icon links. Icons are assumed to
  be Font Awesome brand icons, if you need to use icons from other Font
  Awesome icon set please provide full [CSS class], e.g. `fas fa-camera`
  instead on just `camera`
- **FOOTER_LINKS**: A list of tuples (Title, URL) for footer links. Replaces
  default set of links (Authors, Archives, Categories, Tags).
- **BOOTSTRAP_CSS**: URL of Bootstrap CSS file. Use this to enable Boostwatch themes.
- **PYGMENTS_STYLE**: Built-in Pygments style for syntax highlighting.
- **HIDE_AUTHORS**: Hide the author(s) of an article - useful for single author sites.
- **RFG_FAVICONS**: Use a Favicon Generator package.
- **THEME_CSS_OVERRIDES**: Sequence of stylesheet URLs to override CSS provided by theme.
  Both relative and absolute URLs are supported.
- **THEME_JS_OVERRIDES**: Sequence of JavaScript URLs to enable with this
  theme. Alchemy uses no JS by default. Both relative and absolute URLs are
  supported.

[CSS class]: https://fontawesome.com/how-to-use/on-the-web/referencing-icons/basic-use

Misc settings:

- **DISQUS_SITENAME**
- **GAUGES**
- **GOOGLE_ANALYTICS**
- **PIWIK_URL**
- **PIWIK_SITE_ID**

Example [pelicanconf.py](https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy/blob/demo/pelicanconf.py) (demo website).

### Tips & Tricks

[See documentation page](docs/pelican-tips.md)

## How to Contribute

1. Check for open issues or open a fresh issue to start a discussion around a feature idea or a bug.
1. Fork [the repository](https://github.com/nairobilug/pelican-alchemy) on GitHub to start making your changes to the master branch (or branch off of it).
1. Send a pull request and bug the maintainer until it gets merged and published. :)

Alchemy follows the [Contributor Covenant](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) code of conduct.

## License

[MIT](LICENSE) © 2017 Nairobi GNU/Linux Users Group
